---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-01-27T17:30:32.463Z'
dateModified: '2016-01-27T17:30:11.299Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-01-27-7ab739a0-71fa-4a63-a5bf-82e22f190b4f.md
published: true
url: 7ab739a0-71fa-4a63-a5bf-82e22f190b4f/index.html
_type: Article

---
Stephen King is not exactly the kind of writer one would expect to gain great insights into life.  For some unknown reason a few years ago, I found myself reading the Skeleton Crew by Stephen King (I never made past the introduction but this piece n the introduction has stuck with me.)

In the intro, he's responding to a friend questions about the economics of writing.  More specifically, how much a writer earns per hour.  (Of course the irony is Stephen King has become one of the richest writers but at the time of this conversation that was not the case.  This friend, named Wyatt, and we all have a friend like this, is pointing out how absurd it is to do something for something like passion rather than just money.

Stephen King explains the why of writing as a passion not an income this way and I love it.  (In case you don't get the monkey reference there were monkeys kept on a leash in circuses or fairs that would walk around the people after a"musical performance" and collect tips.

* "All the same, you don't do it for money, or you're a monkey. You don't think of the bottom line, or you're a monkey. You don't think of it in terms of hourly wage, yearly wage, even lifetime wage, or you're a monkey. In the end you don't even do it for love, although it would be nice to think so. You do it because to not do it is suicide. And while that is tough, there are compensations I could never tell Wyatt about, because he is not that kind of guy. 

* You don't do it for money; you do it because it saves you from feeling bad.
A man or woman able to turn his or her back on something
like that is just a monkey, that's all. The story paid me by
letting me get back to sleep when I felt as if I couldn't. I paid
the story back by getting it concrete, which it wanted to be.
The rest is just side effects."